---
  title: BTW 250 Note
  pubDate: 2024-10-10
  categories: ["笔记"]
  description: 'This is the reading note of BTW 250 (Bussiness and Technique Writing).'
---

This is the reading note of BTW 250 (Bussiness and Technique Writing). 

The book is *Business Communication, Building Critical Skills, six edition by Kitty O. Locker and Stephen Kyo Kaczmarek*.

I didn't read all the modules and the below are all that I have read.


- [Module 1. Business Communication, Management, and Success](#module-1-business-communication-management-and-success)
- [Module 2. Adapting Your Message to Your Audience](#module-2-adapting-your-message-to-your-audience)
- [Module 3. Communicating Across Cultures](#module-3-communicating-across-cultures)
- [Module 4. Planning, Writing, and Revising](#module-4-planning-writing-and-revising)
- [Module 5. Designing Documents, Slides, and Screens](#module-5-designing-documents-slides-and-screens)
- [Module 6. You-Attitude](#module-6-you-attitude)
- [Module 7. Positive Emphasis](#module-7-positive-emphasis)
- [Module 8. Reader Benefits](#module-8-reader-benefits)
- [Module 9. Formates for Letters and Memos](#module-9-formates-for-letters-and-memos)
- [Module 11. Negative Messges](#module-11-negative-messges)
- [Module 12. Persuasive Messages](#module-12-persuasive-messages)
- [Module 16. Revising Sentences and Paragraphs](#module-16-revising-sentences-and-paragraphs)
- [Module 23. Short Reports](#module-23-short-reports)
- [Module 26. Researching Jobs](#module-26-researching-jobs)
- [Module 27. Resumes](#module-27-resumes)



## Module 1. Business Communication, Management, and Success

What makes a message effective?
- Clear
- Complete
- Correct
- Saves the reader’s time
- Builds goodwill

**PAICBOC**
- Purpose
    - Specify *exactly* what you want your reader to know, think, or do.
- Audience
- Information
- Benefits
- Objections
- Context

## Module 2. Adapting Your Message to Your Audience

**Five kinds of audiences**

- Primary audience
    - who will decide whether to accept or do your proposal.
- Secondary audience
    - who may be asked to comment on your message or to implement your idea.
- Initial audience
    - who receives the message first and routes it to others
- Gatekeeper
    - who has to power to stop your message before it gets to the primary audience
- watchdog audience
    - who pays attention to the transaction between you and the primary audience, and may act base on its evaluation of your message

**What do I need to know about my audience(s)?**

- How much he audience knows about your topic
- Demographic factors, such as age, income, number of children
- Personality
- Values and beliefs
- Past behavior

**Follow this acronym and answer the resulting questions.** Just remember the AUDIENCE.

- **A**nalysis- Who is the audience?
- **U**nderstanding- What is the audience's knowledge of the subject?
- **D**emographics- What is their age, gender, education background etc.?
- **I**nterest- Why are they reading your document?
- **E**nvironment- Where will this document be sent/viewed?
- **N**eeds- What are the audience's needs associated with your document topic?
- **C**ustomization- What specific needs/interests should you the writer address relating to the specific audience?
- **E**xpectations- What does the audience expect to learn from your document? The audience should walk away having their initial questions answered and explained.


## Module 3. Communicating Across Cultures

**7 ways culture affects communications**

- Values, Beliefs, and Practices
- Nonverbal Communication
- Body Language
- Space
- Time
- Oral Communication
- Writing to International Audiences

**Ways to keep your document free of bias**

- Making Language Nonsexist
    - Use plural nouns and pronouns
    - Use *you*
    - Substitute pronoun or revise to make it unnecessary
    - use pronoun pairs (he or she)
- Making Language Nonracist and Nonagist
    - Give someone’s race or age only if it is relevant to your story
    - Refer to a group by the term it prefers
    - Avoid terms that suggest that competent people are unusual
- **Talking about People with Disabilities and Diseases**
    - People-first language (eg. people with mental retardation)
    - Avoid negative terms
- **Choosing Bias-Free Photos and Illustrations**

## Module 4. Planning, Writing, and Revising

*Save two-thirds of you time for planning and revising*

**Example:**

- Planning
    - Understand the policy
    - Answer the PAIBOC questions
    - Document design
    - Organize the message
- Writing
    - Create a draft
- Revising
    - Reread and measure draft against PAIBOC and other principles
    - Revise the draft
    - Ask for feedback and revise draft based on it
    - Edit to catch grammatical errors
    - Run spell-check
    - Proof by eye
    - Initial memo
    - Duplicate and distribute document

**Planning**

- Brainstorm
- Freewrite (write anything even if its “I will think of something soon”)
- Cluster
    - Write your topic in the middle of the page and circle it. Write down the ideas
    the topic suggests, circling them, too. (The circles are designed to tap into the nonlinear
    half of your brain.) When you’ve filled the page, look for patterns or repeated ideas.
    Use different colored pens to group related ideas
- Talk to your audiences

**Revision**

- **Revising** means making changes that will better satisfy your purposes and your
audience.
- **Editing** means making surface-level changes that make the document grammatically
correct.
- **Proofreading** means checking to be sure the document is free from typographical
errors.

## Module 5. Designing Documents, Slides, and Screens

**Use Headings**

- Make heading specific
- Make each heading cover all the material until the next heading
- Keep headings at any one level parallel

## Module 6. You-Attitude

**To create you-attitude**

- Talk about the reader, not about yourself
    - ~~I have negotiated an agreement with Apex Rent-a-Car that gives you a dis-
    count on rental cars~~.
    - As a Sunstrand employee, you can now get a 20% discount when you rent a
    car from Apex.
- Refer to the reader’s request or order specifically.
    - ~~Your order . . .~~
    - The desk chair you ordered
- Don’t talk about feelings, except to congratulate or offer sympathy.
    - ~~We are happy to extend you a credit line of $5,000.~~
    - You can now charge up to $5,000 on your American Express card.
- In positive situations, use *you* more often then *I*. Use *we* when it includes the reader.
    - ~~We provide health insurance to all employees.~~
    - You receive health insurance as a full-time Procter & Gamble employee.
- Avoid *you* in negative situations.
    - ~~You failed to sign your check.~~
    - Your check arrived without a signature.


## Module 7. Positive Emphasis

**How to create positive emphasis?**

- Avoid negative words and words with negative connotations
    
- Focus on what the reader can do rather then on limitations
    - ~~We will not allow you to charge more than $1,500 on your VISA account.~~
    - Your new VISA card gives you $1,500 in credit that you can use at thousands of
    stores nationwide.
- Justify negative information by giving a reason or linking it to a reader benefit
    - ~~We cannot sell computer disks in lots of less than 10~~
    - To keep down packaging costs and to help customers save on shipping and handling costs, we sell computer disks only in lots of 10 or more.
- If the negative is truly unimportant, Omit It
    - When the reader does not need the information to make a decision
    - When you have already given the reader the information and he or she has access to the previous communication
    - The information is trivial
- Bury the negative information and present it compactly
    - Put the negatives in the middle of a paragraph and middle of the message, or middle of everything
    - For several pages, the bottom of the first page should also be positive even if it is the middle of something.
    - Do not list negatives vertically, try to reduce the space to deemphasize it.

*The desirable tone for business writing is businesslike but not stiff, friendly but not phony, confident but not arrogant, polite but not groveling.*

**Ways to achieve an appropriate, correct tone and politeness?**

- Use courtesy title for people outside your organization whom you don’t know well.
    - Dear Mr.Reynolds; Dr. Wei; Ms. Lee
- Be aware of the power implication of the words you use
    - Question > Indirect request >  Polite order > Order
- When the stakes are low, be straightforward. Messages that “beat around the bush” sound pompous and defensive
- When you mush give bad news, consider hedging your statement

**How to apologize?**

- No explicit apology is necessary if the error is small and if you are correcting the mistake
    - *~~I’m sorry* the clerk did not credit your account properly.~~
    - Your statement *has been corrected* to include your payment of $263.75
- Do not apologize when your are not at fault
    - ~~I’m sorry that I could not answer your question sooner. I had to wait until the
    sales figures for the second quarter were in.~~
    - The new advertising campaign is a success. The sales figures for the second quarter are finally in, and they show that . . .
    
    *Also explanation goes before bad news, and goes after good news*

- When you apologize, do it early, briefly, and sincerely
    - ~~I’m sorry I didn’t answer your letter sooner. I hope that my delay hasn’t inconvenienced you.~~
    - I’m sorry I didn’t answer your letter sooner.
    
    Also:
    
    - The reader already knows this negative information, and you can omit it. Instead, focus on what you have done to correct the situation.
    - If you don’t know whether or not any inconvenience has resulted, don’t raise the issue at all.


## Module 8. Reader Benefits

**Expectancy theory**

- Most people try to do their best only when they believe they can succeed, and when the reward of succeed is what they want

Reader benefits can improve both the attitude and the behavior of the audience

Steps for brainstorming

- Think of the feelings, fears, and needs that may motivate readers
Identify features that meet those needs
- Identify the objective feature of your product
Think how these features could benefit the audience

How to choose effective benefits?

- Use at least one benefit for each part of your audience
- Use intrinsic benefit
- Use the benefit that can be fully developed

Finally, remember to write with *you-attitude*

## Module 9. Formates for Letters and Memos

***Leave it too ChatGPT!***


## Module 11. Negative Messges

**Purposes of negative message:**

Primary Purposes

- To give reader the bad news.
- To have the reader read, understand, and accept the message.
- To maintain as much goodwill as possible

Secondary Purposes

- To build a good image of the writer.
- To build a good image of the writer’s organization.
- To reduce or eliminate future correspondence on the same subject so the message doesn’t create more work for the writer.

**Subject line for a negative message:**

- Omit a subject line in negative letter unless you think reader may ignore what they think is a routine message.
- Focuses on solving the problem.

**How to maintain goodwill:**

- Give the reason for the refusal before the refusal itself when you have a reason that readers will understand and accept.
- Give the negative just once, clearly.
- Present an alternative or compromise, if one is available.
- End with a positive, forward-looking statement.

**The overall pattern is like:**

- Reasons → Refusal → Alternative → Goodwill Ending

Reasons:

- Don’t hide behind “company policy. If possible, show how the readers benefit from the policy. If they do not benefit, don’t mention the policy.
- If you do not have a good reason, omit the reason rather than use a weak one. Even if you have a strong reason, omit it if it makes the company look bad.

Refusal:

- Deemphasize the refusal by putting it in the same paragraph as the reason, rather than in a paragraph by itself.

**Giving Bad news to Superiors**

- **Describe the problem.** Tell what’s wrong, clearly and unemotionally.
- **Tell how it happened.** Provide the background. What underlying factors led to this
specific problem?
- **Describe the options for fixing it.** If one option is clearly best, you may need to
discuss only one. But if the reader will think of other options, or if different people
will judge the options differently, describe all the options, giving their advantages and disadvantages.
- **Recommend a solution and ask for action.** Ask for approval so you can to make the necessary changes to fix the problem.

**Giving Bad News to Peers and Subordinates**

- **Describe the problem.** Tell what’s wrong, clearly and unemotionally.
- **Present an alternative or compromise, if one is available.** An alternative gives readers another way to get what they want and also suggests that you care about readers and helping them meet their needs.
- **If possible, ask for input or action.** People in the audience may be able to suggest solutions. And workers who help make a decision are far more likely to accept the consequences.

**Common kinds of negative messages**

- Rejections and Refusals
- Disciplinary Notices and Negative Performance Appraisals
- Layoffs and Firings

A **buffer** is a neutral or positive statement that allows you to delay the negative.


## Module 12. Persuasive Messages

**Persuasive strategy**

- Direct request when:
    - The audience will do as you ask without any resistance
    - You need a response only rom the people who are willing to act.
    - The audience is busy and may not read all the messages received.
    - Your organization’s culture prefers direct requests.
- problem-solving pattern when:
    - The audience is likely to object to doing as you ask.
    - You need action from everyone.
    - You trust the audience to read the entire message.
    - You expect logic to be more important than emotion in the decision.

**Subject line**

- In a direct request, put the request in the subject line.
- For reluctant reader, use neutral or positive subject line, so that they will have more chance to read your arguments.

**Organize persuasive messages**

- Direct Requests
    - Consider asking immediately for the information or service you want.
    - Give readers all the information and details they will need to act on your request.
    - Ask for the action you want.
- Problem-Solving
    - Describe the problem you both share
    - Give the details of the problem
    - Explain the solution to the problem
    - Show that any negative elements(cost, time, etc) are outweighed by the advantages.
    - Summarize any additional benefits of the solution.
    - Ask for the action you want.

**Identify and overcome objections**

- Phrase your questions non-defensively
- Ask follow-up questions

- Specify how much time and/or money is required—it may not be as much as the reader fears.
- Put the time and/or money in the context of the benefits they bring.
- Show that money spent now will save money in the long run.
- Show that doing as you ask will benefit some cause or group the reader supports, even
though the action may not help the reader directly.
- Show the reader that the sacrifice is necessary to achieve a larger, more important goal
to which he or she is committed.
- Show that the advantages as a group outnumber or outweigh the disadvantages as a group.
- Turn a disadvantage into an opportunity.

Other techniques

- Build Credibility
- Build Emotional Appeal
- Use the Right Tone
    - ***ChatGPT***
- Offer a reason for the reader to act promptly
    - give them a deadline for response

Common kinds of persuasive messages

- Orders
- Collection Letters
- Performance Appraisals
- Letters of Recommendation

## Module 16. Revising Sentences and Paragraphs

**Active verbs:**

- Use active verbs most of the time
    - “Who does what” with active verbs make your writing more forceful.
    
- **Use verbs to carry the weight of your sentence**
    - **Weak:** We will perform an investigation of the problem.
    **Better:** We will investigate the problem.
    **Weak:** Selection of a program should be based on the client’s needs.
    **Better:** Select the program that best fits the client’s needs.

**Avoid wordiness:**

- Eliminate words that say nothing
    - *Of, which, that, there are, It is,* etc
        - ~~There are three reasons for the success of the project.~~ Three reasons explain the project’s success.
        - ~~the estimate which is enclosed~~ 
        the enclosed estimate
- Use the -ing form of a verb
- Combine Sentences
- Put the meaning into the subject and verb.
    - Wordy: ~~The reason we are recommending the computerization of this process is because it will reduce the time required to obtain data and will give us more accurate data.~~
    
    Better: ~~We are recommending the computerization of this process because it will save time and give us more accurate data.~~
        
        Tight: Computerizing the process will give us more accurate data more quickly.
        

**Vary Sentence Length and Structure**

- Simple sentences
    - one main clause
- Compound sentences
    - two main clauses joined with *and, but,* etc.
- Complex sentences
    - one main and one subordinate clause; they are good for showing logical relationships.
- **Guidelines**
    - Always edit sentences for tightness
    - When your subject matter is complicated or full of numbers, make a special effort to keep sentences short.
    - Use long sentences to
        - show how ideas are linked to each other.
        - avoid a series of short, choppy sentences.
        - reduce repetition
    - Group the words in long and medium-length sentences into chunks that the reader can process quickly.
    - When you use a long sentence, keep the subject and verb close together.

**Revising Paragraphs**

- Begin with Topic Sentences.
- Use transitions to link ideas.

**How does organizational culture affect style?**

If you work for someone who likes flowery language or wordy paragraphs, for example—you have several choices.

- Use the techniques in this module first.
- Help your boss learn about writing (WTF?)
- Recognize that a style may serve other purposes than communication.
- Ask.

## Module 23. Short Reports

**Types of short reports**

- Informative and Closure Reports
    - Introduction
    - Chronological account of how the problem was discovered, what was done, and what the result were.
    - Concluding with suggestions for later action
- Feasibility Reports
- Justification
    - Indicate what you’re asking for and why it’s needed.
    - Briefly give the background of the problem or need.
    - Explain each of the possible solutions.
    - Summarize the action needed to implement your recommendation.
    - Ask for the action you want.
    

**Organizing information**

seven basic patterns might be helpful:

- Comparison / Contrast
- Problem-solution.
- Elimination of alternatives.
- General to particular or particular to general.
- Geographic or spatial.
- Functional
- Chronological

Three exceptions for style

- Use a fairly formal style, without contractions or slang.
- Avoid the word *you.*
- Include in the report all the definitions and documents needed to understand the recommendations


## Module 26. Researching Jobs

What do I need to know about myself?

- What achievements have given you the most satisfaction? *Why*?
- Form
    - Would you rather have firm deadlines or a flexible schedule?
    - Do you prefer working alone or with other people?
    - Do you prefer specific instructions and standards for evaluation or freedom and uncertainty?
    - How comfortable are you with pressure?
    - Are you willing to “pay your dues” for several years before you are promoted?
    - How much challenge do you want?
- Time
    - Are you willing to take work home? To travel?
    - How important is money to you? Prestige? Time to spend with family and friends?
- Live
    - Where do you want to live?
    - What features in terms of weather, geography, and cultural and social life do you see as ideal?
- Why to work
    - Is it important to you that your work achieve certain purposes or values, or do you see work as “just a way to make a living”?
    - Are the organization’s culture and ethical standards important to you?

Information Interviews

- Let you know whether or not you’d like the job.
- Give you specific information that you can use to present yourself effectively in your resume and application letter.
- Create a good image of you in the mind of the interviewer so he or she thinks well of you when openings arise.

## Module 27. Resumes

*No need to be 1 page.*

An experiment that mailed one-or two-page résumés to CPA firms showed that even readers who said they preferred short résumés were more likely to want to interview the candidate with the longer résumé.